DEVOTIONAL BOOKLET


DB-01 — Front and Back Covers
[No descriptive text — title screen]


DB-02 — Front and Back Covers
The booklet was a luxury item, created in Germany about 1330–50. It was almost certainly made for the monk who is shown kneeling on both the front and back covers. On the front cover, he kneels beside St Lawrence and a bishop saint.


DB-03 — Front and Back Covers
This small booklet was a portable aid for personal prayer and meditation. The pages inside depict Christ's crucifixion and resurrection from the dead, as told in the Bible.


DB-04 — Front and Back Covers
The booklet covers are made of intricately carved elephant ivory and the figures and architectural details have been enhanced with gilding and painting.


DB-05 — Front and Back Covers
The booklet was a luxury item, made about 1330–50 in Germany. It was almost certainly made for the monk who is shown kneeling on both the front and back covers.


DB-06 — Booklet pages 7 and 8
The illustrations inside encourage the viewer to understand and share in Christ's suffering, as well as his triumph over death.


DB-07 — Booklet pages 13 and 14
The aim of the booklet was to move the viewer from thinking about the physical events shown on the page toward a more spiritual meditation on the symbols at the end of the booklet.


DB-08 — Booklet pages 1 and 2
The inside leaves of the booklet are made of sheets of elephant ivory which have been painted and gilded.


DB-09 — Booklet pages 1 and 2
The first scene shows the Last Supper, the final meal Christ shared with the twelve apostles, his closest followers whom he chose to spread his Gospel. It was at this meal that Christ announced that one of the apostles would betray him. Judas, the traitor, kneels before him.


DB-10 — Booklet pages 1 and 2
This scene shows the moment when Judas betrays Christ with a kiss, identifying him to the Temple guards. As the guards move to arrest Christ, one of his close followers, St Peter, lashes out with a sword.


DB-11 — Booklet pages 3 and 4
Here, Christ appears before the Roman governor of Judea, Pontius Pilate, on the orders of the Jewish High Priests. Pilate finds no fault in the actions of Christ.


DB-12 — Booklet pages 3 and 4
Pilate sends Christ to King Herod, ruler of Judea on behalf of the Roman authorities. Like Pontius Pilate, Herod believes Christ is not a threat to social order and sends him back to the Roman governor.


DB-13 — Booklet pages 5 and 6
Before Christ is led away to be crucified, Pontius Pilate orders him to be flogged and beaten. This was normal practice under Roman law.


DB-14 — Booklet pages 5 and 6
Pontius Pilate tries to persuade the priests and crowd to release Christ, but they demand his death. Pilate is shown washing his hands, a public act to signal that he refuses to take responsibility for Christ's death.


DB-15 — Booklet pages 7 and 8
The illustrations inside encourage the viewer to understand and share in Christ's suffering, as well as his triumph over death. The aim is to move the viewer from thinking about the physical events shown on the page towards a more spiritual meditation on the symbols at the end of the booklet.


DB-16 — Booklet pages 7 and 8
Christ carries the cross on which he is to die. He hauls it to Golgotha, the execution grounds outside Jerusalem's city walls. Simon of Cyrene helps, while Christ's mother Mary stands behind. Both Simon and Mary have halos to indicate their holiness.


DB-17 — Booklet pages 7 and 8
Christ dies on the cross. His mother Mary and John the Evangelist mourn at his feet. The belief that Christ is the son of God who died on the cross and rose from the dead three days later is central to Christianity.


DB-18 — Booklet pages 9 and 10
Here, Christ emerges from his tomb. Christians now mark their belief in the resurrection with Easter.


DB-19 — Booklet pages 9 and 10
This illustration represents a Christian legend not recorded in the Bible. On the way to his crucifixion, a woman wiped Christ's face, and his image was miraculously imprinted on the cloth. Christians believe the image to be a true likeness of Christ. By praying before the 'True Likeness', a Christian could lessen the time spent in purgatory, before entering heaven.


DB-20 — Booklet pages 11 and 12
The final pages of the booklet show symbols associated with the suffering and death of Christ. Each symbol links to the stories shown on the previous pages. Readers would have been familiar with these symbols and used them to focus their private prayer and meditation.


DB-21 — Booklet pages 11 and 12
After Christ's arrest, the Jewish High Priests mocked him. This large hand represents the Jewish authorities striking Christ, as described in several of the Gospel accounts.


DB-22 — Booklet pages 11 and 12
The symbols on this page allude to Christ's crucifixion. We see the Crown of Thorns Christ was forced to wear and the wound in his side, alongside a bucket and sponge on the end of a stick. Christ was given the sponge to use to drink from the bucket, which contained vinegar.


DB-23 — Booklet pages 13 and 14
The focus on Christ's crucifixion continues with these symbols depicting the tools used to nail Christ to the cross and the cloth with which he was blindfolded. Below, thirty pieces of silver, one now lost, represent Judas' betrayal, while the bloody footprints remind viewers of Christ's walk to Golgotha.


DB-24 — Booklet pages 13 and 14
The final page depicts the stick and scourge used to torture Christ, the ladder he climbed to reach the cross and his cloak for which soldiers gambled using three dice. To the right are the spear used to pierce Christ's side and a view of Christ's empty tomb, shown from above.


DB-25 — Back Cover
The back cover shows Christ crowning his mother Mary as the Queen of Heaven. Worshippers often addressed prayers to the Virgin Mary, believing that she would intervene on their behalf.
